---
layout: post
title:  "2021 HCPC Testing"
date:   2022-01-01 22:50:00 +0900
categories: algorithm contest
---

This was my first time participating as a tester to an algorithm/cp contest!

Despite having disappointing results(subjective, but I was honestly a bit disappointed at myself lately) on various CP contests this year, I luckily received an offer to become a tester for this year's [HCPC][hcpc], which is a competitive programming contest held at our university(Hanyang University). I had won the **Bronze prize of Beginner division** as a freshman back in 2020, and wasn't really sure if I could win something better this year in the Advanced division, *plus it really seemed like a good opportunity to experience something unique & improve my CP skills in general,* so I decided to take the offer and join in.

I had 0 experience with creating problems & testing them whatsoever, but was thoroughly excited to create some torturous problem with an elegant solution because hey, it's not me who's going to suffer during the contest. At first it wasn't clear whether I would just be testing or also be given an offer for problem creation, so to get some fresh ideas I had been solving some challenging problems for a week or two. 

Some of those problems that really gave me a hard time & had an interesting solution were ones like [this problem from 2021 ICPC Seoul Regional](https://www.acmicpc.net/problem/23576)(not exactly the same problem I solved but has the same solution), and [this problem from 2016 ACM South Pacific Programming Contest.](https://www.acmicpc.net/problem/15170) Both problems require you to alter a well-known algorithm/technique in some way to solve the problem in a somewhat unexpected manner, and I really wanted to create a problem with a similar solution-approaching style, but sadly I ended up just testing for the time being. *Oh well, guess I'll put aside torturing contestants for another time...*

Back to the main subject. A vague problemset for the contest was already made, and partially separated to two divisions: **`Beginner`**, and **`Advanced`**. Since my personal goal was to challenge myself, I decided to choose two problems from the Advanced division + received a request for help on one extra common problem and started working on them. I will refer to them according to the final version of the problemset, which can be viewed [here][problemset]. The solutions for these problems can also be viewed [here][solutions], but bear in mind those are both written in korean. Sadly we didn't have enough time or need to write an english version for these materials, but I think that might change in next year's contest since I'll probably get to be in charge.

### A1(AB). - Two Pointers  
A1 is a problem that may look very weird due to the conditions and limits. A problem with a very tight time limit of 0.6 seconds, but also has an extraordinarily large upper bound for N may honestly prevent contestants from trying an O(N) solution, but in reality the main solution for the problem has a time complexity of O(N). The reason for the limits being so tight was due to the author wanting to prevent an O(NlogN) solution from passing, but in hindsight since it wasn't supposed to be a hard problem I think it was a bit of a mistake on our side.

The main solution uses a technique known as **`two pointers`**, which is an **O(N)** way to search for values typically in a sorted array. Simply search through the entire array from the problem and find the best answer. An **O(M)** solution is also possible if you were to just use the given input array, but requires some tweaking as there is a very specific edge case that resulted in most of the contestants being unable to pass this problem. That edge case can also be viewed in the official [solutions.][solutions]



### A2(AC). - Heavy-Light Decomposition, Shortest-path
I'll be honest, A2 wasn't meant to be solved at all, and it was not even attempted by any contest at the time. I really had a devilish time testing this problem and setting up the conditions/test cases right, because it really is an over-engineered problem imho.

So, the main solution first. 
1. You first need to figure out the shortest path from the source to all other nodes in the given graph, likely through **`Dijkstra's algorithm`**. With that information, you can form a tree from the initial graph with the source as its root.
2. You perform the inverse of the given queries(aka increasing the weight of the given path instead of every other path) via **`Heavy-Light Decomposition`**, which lets you perform these types of queries on a tree in O((logN)^2)time. 
3. With that information you can answer the 2nd type of queries with ease, resulting in a total time complexity of **O(MlogN+Q(logN)^2)**.

That's already quite a mouthful, but to also take into account that HLD is nortoriously long and complicated to implement in code, this really should not have been a part of our problemset at all for a contest of this level.

At first the problem was supposed to have a solution more simliar to [this problem from USACO December 2011 Gold](https://www.acmicpc.net/problem/5916) which can be solved using an advanced trick with **`Euler Tour Technique`** to process queries with just a **`Segment Tree`**, but due to the author wanting the problem to start with the tree formation process we couldn't really switch the conditions to match that solution. The queries were also supposed to reduce the weight of the paths **but not below 1 so that shortest path finding is still valid**, which quickly turned out to increase the difficulty of the problem by a lot requiring more advanced techniques such as **`Segment Tree Beats`**. Best I could settle down to was using HLD, which is still harder than the originally proposed difficulty/solution but at least it worked consistently. Another potential solution we discovered during the testing process was some sort of **`Square root Decomposition`**, but we failed to get it right for a very few number of edge cases. One of our testers assumed that it would probably be possible to get a working solution, but we couldn't verify it ourselves.



### C2(BF/AF)(common in both divisions). - Dynamic Programming
I have a lot to say aobut this problem, because originally it looked more like a generic **`0-1 Knapsack DP`** problem with its conditions. After I proposed that generic knapsack dp solution to the author, I received a thank you message for my contribution, only to wake up the next day discovering that the constraints for the problem were heavily increased to make that exact solution impossible.

The main solution uses an **`O(N^2) DP`** where dp[i][k] represents the answer when k drinks have been selected starting from the ith drink. *Now that's a very weird DP relation if you ask me,* as you have to iterate from the back and also sort the array to get the DP working in this very specific manner, so I tried to get a more straightforward solution for the problem but gave up in the end as I wasn't really supposed to be testing this problem. The author assumed that other forms of DP relations would be possible, and just went straight to the contest with that assumption, but only 1 person from the entire contest was able to solve it. To our relief, at least with a different DP relation.(Still looked weird though)


Overall I think the problems were a bit unforgiving, and had overly tight conditions for the contestants. The winner of the advanced division came out to only have 4 solves(...), and no one attempted the really challenging problems at all, which came as a great disappointment to the testers who really spent a lot of time on those.

However I did learn a lot on the subjects of the problems I had tested, especially from the HLD problem since that had caused me many headaches over a few weeks. Personally it was a great experience, however as a contest, I don't think we really did a great job on it. There's definitely a lot of room to improve on, and hopefully I could switch things around a lot more next year.

Speaking of next year, this post came out so late that next year is this year.

[hcpc]: https://hcpc.hanyang.ac.kr/
[problemset]: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/155yXAzyI8ELo1w2i98aYfyQF7u5YWfJr
[solutions]: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1c_eZ5Qjt0OX20jnpY7BYR7Z_8JEDCiCQ/view
[hld]: https://cp-algorithms.com/graph/hld.html